.TH "NSYNC" "1" "Mar 06, 2026" "0.12" "mpiFileUtils"
.SH NAME
nsync \- synchronize source and destination in split-mount MPI topologies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsync [OPTION] SRC DEST
.SH DESCRIPTION
Parallel MPI application to synchronize SRC to DEST when source and
destination paths are mounted on different node sets.

Unlike dsync, nsync does not require each rank to access both SRC and DEST.
Ranks are assigned as source-side or destination-side workers and data is
transferred over MPI from source owners to destination owners.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-dryrun
Show planned differences and actions without modifying destination.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-batch\-files N
Process approximately N entries per batch to bound planner memory.
Enables batch checkpoint/resume using \fB.nsync.batch.state\fP.
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-delete
Delete extraneous files from destination.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-contents
Compare regular files by SHA256 digest (instead of size+mtime checks).
.TP
.B \-\-bufsize SIZE
Set I/O and digest buffer size in bytes.
.TP
.B \-\-chunksize SIZE
Set minimum work chunk size in bytes.
.TP
.B \-\-progress N
Print progress every N seconds from the launcher-console log rank.
Progress output includes recent copy throughput (volume/files).
A value of 0 disables progress messages.
.TP
.B \-\-role\-mode MODE
Role assignment mode: \fBauto\fP or \fBmap\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-role\-map SPEC
Explicit role map used with \fB\-\-role\-mode map\fP.
Example: \fB0\-1:src,2\-3:dst\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-trace
Print per-rank stage traces for debugging collectives and pipeline stages.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Verbose output.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Quiet output.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help.
.SH ROLE MODEL
Each rank is assigned one of:

- \fBsrc\fP: can access source path and serves metadata/data from SRC

- \fBdst\fP: can access destination path and applies actions under DEST

In \fBauto\fP mode, nsync probes source readability and destination writability.
In \fBmap\fP mode, roles are assigned directly by world rank.
.SH BATCH CHECKPOINT
When \fB\-\-batch\-files\fP is enabled, nsync writes progress to:

\fBDEST/.nsync.batch.state\fP

On restart with matching source/destination/options, nsync resumes from the
last completed batch. Mismatched checkpoint state is ignored safely.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Synchronize split mounts with automatic role detection:
.B mpirun \-np 2 nsync /src /dst

.TP
Force roles in a shared-mount local test:
.B mpirun \-np 2 nsync \-\-role\-mode map \-\-role\-map 0:src,1:dst /tmp/src /tmp/dst

.TP
Memory-bounded sync with delete and content compare:
.B mpirun \-np 8 nsync \-\-batch\-files 200000 \-\-delete \-\-contents /src /dst
.SH SEE ALSO
dsync(1), dcp(1), dwalk(1), mpifileutils(1)
